Hello, and welcome to Python for
Everybody, my name's Charles Severance.
In this short video, I will be
explaining how to run exercise 2.3
where we prompt for some hours,
prompt for some rates, and
multiply them together, and
print them out with a little pay message.
And so, this is 2.3,
some of you will immediately
want to go to the autograder, and sort
of do your homework in the autograder.
I really rather you didn't do that, unless
of course you're doing this on an iPad,
or an Android, or something where
you can't install Python, but
you have to realize that the autograder
isn't forever. You can only go so
far with the autograder, and eventually,
you have to write a real Python program.
So, I'll eventually show you
how to run this autograder,
but I'm going to instead show you
how to run it in the terminal.
So, I'm first going to go into my
Python for Everybody folder, and
I'm going to make a new folder,
command Shift+N is what I just did there,
ex_02_03, for Exercise 3, so
there's exercise 3. And
I'm also going to go into Atom, which is my
text editor, and see I have that folder.
And so, I'm going to make a new file, and
I will say print,
I'll just say PY4E, oops,
PY4E, and then I will say File,
Save As, and
I want to make sure it's in here,
and it's going to be ex_02.
I don't like putting spaces in file names,
some operating systems can't handle them,
that's why I'm using underscores here,
so I would avoid using spaces in file names.
So as soon as I give that a PY4E,
as soon as I
give it a python suffix I'm there, and
so it shows up there in my desktop,
and now I'm going to run the terminal
program, so that I can get there.
So, cd Desktop/ cd py4e/
That's the folder on my desktop,
If I do an ls I see a couple folders and
a file, you can say ls -l and see a little
more detail that these are folders, these
two are folders, and this one's a file.
So change directory cd ex_02_03, and
so now I'm in that folder,
and if I do an ls -l,
I see that file. I can also do an ls
without the -l, and see the file.
And now I say
python3 ex_02_03.py, and it runs.
And you'll see me,
no matter how many times you watch me,
you'll see that the first thing that I do,
is get to the point where I know I'm
in the right directory, and
I can run a little hello program,
before I start coding.
I just don't like being crazy, right?
So now, I'm going to go back and
take a look at my assignment, Enter Hours,
you've got a prompt for hours, ask for
a number, Enter Rate, prompt for
rate, and then calculate Pay.
So, there's a couple of input statements
here, xh is my variable I'm going to
choose, later I'll choose more
effective variables, but for
now I'm going to make them silly,
Enter Hours, colon, space.
And then I'm going to copy, and
paste and call this xr for rate.
When you're doing this,
you need to be very careful to, and
so now I'm going to calculate xp times,
which is xh * xr, and I'll say print Pay.
I don't need to put a space because this
comma effectively creates a space, xp.
And then I want to save that, and I'm
going to switch to my terminal program,
clear my screen in my terminal program,
and I'm going type up arrow,
because I already typed
python3 ex_02_03.py.
So my hours, I'll just start with
something really simple that
I can calculate in my head, 10 and 5.
Whoops, can't multiply
sequence of non-int of,
by sequence of non-int of type str.
Here we have a traceback,
and again I encourage you to realize
that these tracebacks are not
personal attacks by Python on you,
even though they might be frustrating.
And so the way to parse this
is start by saying line 3,
something's wrong at line 3, it's
pretty good at knowing what line it is, or
it's either that line or
the line above it, and
it's something about multiplying.
What it's really saying is
I'm confused, I have to stop because I
cannot understand your instructions.
So, the problem here of course
is that this is of type string.
And so you can't multiply
a string times a string.
Okay, and so we can convert this
using a float, float, so that's
a function call now, we're passing the
string xh in, and the value we get back
is the floating point version of that,
and then, we call float for this as well.
And so now I'll save that,
always remember to save.
I'm going to run it, and so
I'm going to run it my hours of 10, and
my rate of 10, and it's 100, and so
that looks pretty good, okay?
So let's go ahead and
try to run this in the autograder, and
this is my idea, is you'll take this and
you'll copy it, and
you'll go back to the autograder now,
and just paste this in, okay?
And so it says use 35 hours,
and rate of 2.75,
so let's check the code 35 hours, OK,
75, no 2.75.
And so it's running, and
it's running, and it works, and
of course, now I've got my grade.
So this idea where you work here to
get your assignment done correctly, and
then you run it in the autograder,
is the way I intend for
you to do it, but
again if you can't do it that way,
it's a great way to get started to just
write your code it the autograder.
You can change your code in
the autograder, and then run it again.
Of course, this is going to fail,
35, and 2.75.
And of course you get a mismatch, and
now it's angry at you, and
the mismatch here, of course, is because
I print Howdy Pay and Pay, and
it's real picky about it, and
you think I've got the 96.25 right.
Well, it doesn't really care so
much about that.
So, let me go ahead and fix this, and
run it so we leave on a successful note
35 hours, and
2.75 is the rate per hour,
kind of a lower rate per hour,
and we're getting successful.
And of course that means that you
now have a grade on assignment 2.3,
look at that, I got a grade on
assignment 2.3, unless of course,
you're running these in some
other environment, okay?
Thank you so much, and
I hope that this has been useful to you.